Hello and welcome to this Samsung Knox training video on getting started with Knox E-FOTA.
In this video, we'll show you what Knox E-FOTA is, the different features it offers,
and how it can be used to manage and schedule firmware and OS updates on your devices.
You'll learn how to register a reseller, approve a device, create and assign a campaign, and monitor device statuses.
So if you're new to Knox E-FOTA, then this video is for you.
Let's get started.
Before you begin, you'll need an account at samsungknox.com.
For more information, check out our video on getting started with the Knox Admin Portal.
You’ll also need Samsung devices running Android 9.0 or higher.
To use Knox E-FOTA, you’ll need a valid Knox Suite license, which includes access to Knox E-FOTA along with other Knox services.
Note that a trial license is generated when you first register for a Samsung Knox account.
If you don't have a valid Knox Suite license, refer to our Knox Suite video for more info.
Knox E-FOTA allows you to remotely deploy operating system, firmware,
and security updates to corporate devices without any user interaction.
With the ability to test, schedule, and monitor OS updates as well as app compatibility prior to deployment,
Knox E-FOTA enables you to confidently manage large device fleets with minimal effort.
To start using Knox E-FOTA, sign in to your Samsung Knox account.
Once the Knox Admin Portal launches, you’ll see Knox E-FOTA on the left navigation pane.
If you don’t see it, click the account icon in the top-right to access portal settings,
then click Show/Hide services and select Knox E-FOTA from the list of Knox cloud services.
The first page you’ll see is the Dashboard, which provides a quick summary of the different statuses of your enterprise devices,
such as the firmware download or installation status, the security patch rate, the campaign status, and much more.
To start using Knox E-FOTA, the first thing you'll need to do is to upload a device.
You can do this by contacting your reseller for device uploads,
using a CSV file to upload one or more devices in bulk,
or by working with a supported EMM to sync your devices with the EMM into the portal.
For this video, we'll show you how resellers can upload devices.
Let’s head over to the Resellers page.
Knox E-FOTA helps prevent unauthorized device use by allowing your Samsung-approved resellers to upload devices.
But before a reseller can upload devices, you'll first need to register them.
To do that, click Resellers in the left pane,
then click REGISTER RESELLER.
Enter the reseller's Knox Reseller ID in the text box and click Register.
Once you register a reseller, you can also set your reseller preferences.
With Auto-approval, you can set the devices to be auto-approved when a trusted reseller uploads them,
streamlining the entire upload process.
With Auto-assignment, you can also choose a default campaign you'd like to automatically assign to
devices every time a reseller uploads them.
Once you're done configuring your preferences, save them.
Next, you’ll have to approve the devices that your reseller has uploaded.
Let’s head over to the Devices page.
The Devices page displays every device that's been uploaded to your account.
It also shows the firmware version these devices are running, the OS updates these devices are set up for,
and the status of these OS updates, alongside other device information.
Note that either a trial or a commercial license is needed for device uploads into your account.
To verify and approve devices uploaded by your reseller,
click View next to the pending upload in the UPLOADS tab,
then click APPROVE ALL DEVICES.
In the dialog, select whether you want to enable automatic device approval
and campaign assignment for this reseller for future device uploads.
Once you're done, click APPROVE.
This makes it easy to ensure that all the device uploads a particular reseller makes are swiftly approved,
regardless of how large the device fleet is.
Now that you have your devices uploaded, let's talk about campaigns.
Knox E-FOTA campaigns let you control how different OS and firmware updates are pushed to different devices,
which you can classify into device groups.
You can configure device groups to have different firmware installation and download periods,
configure network requirements,
and campaign rollout policies,
all while being able to test pre-deployment app compatibility.
To create a campaign,
go to the Campaigns page on the left navigation pane.
Then, click CREATE CAMPAIGN.
On the campaign configuration screen, enter a campaign name and an optional description.
Next, configure the campaign schedule.
This can either be a set period with a definite start and end time,
or just a start date with an indefinite end time.
You’ll need to define a period for firmware installations on your devices.
Note that you can also include weekends in your schedule.
Then, select a period for firmware download.
This period can either be the same as the firmware installation period or any period that you customize.
You can then set the duration for which the firmware installation messages are displayed.
After this duration, installation begins automatically.
If needed, you can also postpone installations.
Note that you can only postpone three times and will get a reminder as per the postponement duration setting.
Next, select a download network.
The Basic network allows you to download firmware over Wi-Fi, Ethernet, or mobile data,
while the Advanced network allows you to decide the priority of these networks.
This means that even if the device Wi-Fi fails, the device can still download using mobile data.
You can also configure networks to ensure that downloads occur or are blocked only on these networks.
Next, you can restrict downloads to a specific size,
define a minimum battery level for installations,
and block the factory reset option for device users.
Then, enter your contact details.
You can manually assign a particular firmware version to your enrolled devices.
To do so, first select your device model and enter the sales codes.
Then, select the firmware version that’ll be applied to your device.
This can either be the latest firmware, the current firmware version,
or a firmware version that you select from the list of available firmware.
If you select a particular firmware version, click ADD after selecting it.
Then, to select devices that’ll receive this firmware update,
click ASSIGN DEVICES, select one or more devices, and click ASSIGN to finish.
Now, the firmware version you’ve selected will be pushed to all the devices you've selected.
Finally, you can also optionally choose a campaign rollout policy to control how many devices download new firmware each day.
Once you finish configuring the campaign policies, click CREATE AND ACTIVATE.
Now that you have an active campaign, we’ll show how you can assign a campaign and a firmware version to your enrolled devices.
Click Devices in the left pane,
then select one or more devices you want to assign the campaign to.
Click ACTIONS, then click Assign campaign.
Select the campaign that you just created, then click ASSIGN.
All the campaign details will be pushed to all the devices you selected.
Similarly, you can also cancel a campaign, delete a campaign,
or download device information as a CSV file by clicking ACTIONS.
Now that you’ve assigned a campaign to your device,
let’s see what actually happens when the campaign updates are pushed to the device.
Once an active campaign is assigned to a device, the device goes through the firmware or OS update.
On the device, the Knox E-FOTA client app displays information about the firmware being updated and the assigned campaign,
such as the campaign status, the campaign period,
and the software download and installation conditions.
As the update progresses, you can check its status on the Dashboard page.
Here, the DEVICE UPDATE STATUS widget shows you if the update is completed, in progress, or yet to start.
Additionally, you can check updates about your device on the Devices page,
such as the new OS or firmware version,
the operation status,
or security patch information.
This concludes our video on getting started with Knox E-FOTA.
Congratulations! You're now ready to update and monitor thousands of devices and leverage all of Knox E-FOTA’s features.
We offer tutorials and videos for each service,
so if you need any help at any point, check out the Samsung Knox documentation at docs.samsungknox.com.
Thanks for watching.